1.Explain the main method in Java?
	 It is a default signature which is predefined in the JVM.
         A main method () is starting point for JVM to start execution of a java program without the main method () JVM will not execute.
	Syntax: public static void main (String args[]) 

2.What are the different control flow statement available in Java?

  1.Decision Making statements
	if statements
	switch statement
  2.Loop statements
	do while loop
	while loop
	for loop
	for-each loop
  3.Jump statements
	break statement
	continue statement


3. different between break and continue statements?
   The break statement is used to terminate the loop immediately. 
      break keyword is used to indicate break statements in java programming.
   The continue statement is used to skip the current iteration of the loop. 
      continue keyword is used to indicate continue statement in java programming.


4.What is an array? How will you declare an array in Java?
	 Array is used to store the multiple values in same data type.
         Array declared in 2 ways,
      1.Literal-Its stored in constant memory pool
        int[] arr={1,2,3,5,3,7,8};
      2.New keyword-Stored in heap memory.
        int[] arr=new int[3];

5.When will you get an Array Index Out of Bounds Exception?
	It occurs when we give an in appropriate index to access the program which is not present in the array.
        The index may be negative or exceed the size of an array.

6.Define the syntax to create a syntax of object of the class. What is the naming conventions followed by method in java give a example? 
	 Syntax:Classname ogject=new Constructor();
   Naming conventions:
     -Class--mixed cases, first letter of each internal word is capitalized.
      Ex:public class ArrayOfValues{ }

     -Method--mixed cases,first letter is lowercase and with the first letter of each internal word capitalized. (Camelcase letters)
      Ex:public void addIntegers()

     -Variable--Name should be short yet meaningful,should not start with underscore or dollar charcters.
      Ex:int arr=2;

7.What is Variable? How will you declare a variable in java?
   In Java programming, the variables used for the program need to declare them first.
    The variable is declared using a data type followed by the identifier name.
    Declaration:
       Datatype variblename=datavalues;

8.What is string in Java? Is it a data type?
	String is a class and it is Non primitive Data Type.
        It stores a sequence of characters. 
        Yes, the String is a data type.
      
9.What are the different ways to create the string object in java?

There are Two Ways to create the string object;

Using String literal:
Java string literal is created by using double quotes.
String s="Welcome";

Using New keyword:
Java String is created by using a keyword "new"
String s= new string("Welcome");

10. What is the Difference between .Equals and ==?
    
   Both .equal and == operators are used to compare two objects in java.
    '==' operator compares reference or memory location of object.
    .equals compares the content of the string or object.


	




© 2022 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact GitHub
Pricing
API
Training
Blog
About
